OngeS97T-en; en; Where does the Paralympic Flame come from? What does it represent?; The Paralympic Flame is lit a few days before the Paralympic Games in the United Kingdom at Stoke Mandeville. This location is associated with the birth of the Paralympic movement.



Indeed, it is a hospital where the German neurologist Sir Ludwig Gutman organized the first competitions to accelerate the recovery of his paraplegic patients, all veterans of World War II.; Torch Relay Route ;Flames and torch; https://help.paris2024.org/en-gb/contents/Where-does-the-Paralympic-Flame-come-from-What-does-it-represent-OngeS97T
Ongd4GaS-en; en; Is it possible to buy the torch as a souvenir?; The torch will not be available for sale to the general public: it is not a Paris 2024 merchandise item.; Torch Relay Route ;Flames and torch; https://help.paris2024.org/en-gb/contents/Is-it-possible-to-buy-the-torch-as-a-souvenir-Ongd4GaS
OngdYmoQ-en; en; What happens to the Flame at night?; Day and night, the Flame is guarded by a dedicated team who watches over it.

At night, the Flame is placed back in its safety lantern and is monitored by its close guard.; Torch Relay Route ;Flames and torch; https://help.paris2024.org/en-gb/contents/What-happens-to-the-Flame-at-night-OngdYmoQ
OngiDqKi-en; en; Where does the Olympic Flame come from? What does it represent?; In ancient times, the Greeks considered fire as an element of divine origin and had the custom of keeping a fire burning continuously in front of major temples.

This was the case at the sanctuary of Olympia where the ancient Olympic Games were held. To ensure its purity, the Flame was lit using sunlight focused at the centre of a vessel called skaphia, the precursor to the parabolic mirror used today.

A Flame burned continuously on the altar of the goddess Hestia, and fires were also lit on the altars of Zeus and Hera.



Today, the purity of the Olympic Flame for the modern Games is preserved. Similar to the past, the Flame is ignited by the sun's rays in front of the ruins of the temple of Hera in Olympia.

It still symbolises the ideal of peace and unity among peoples and heralds the arrival of the upcoming Games.; Torch Relay Route ;Flames and torch; https://help.paris2024.org/en-gb/contents/Where-does-the-Olympic-Flame-come-from-What-does-it-represent-OngiDqKi
Ongg4Gdn-en; en; What will the Paris 2024 torch look like?; The torch, like the medals, serves as a symbol that marks an Olympiad.

These are objects that endure as a legacy and highlight the specificities of each edition of the Games.



The design of the Paris 2024 torch can be found by following this link:

https://www.paris2024.org/en/torch-design/



For Paris 2024, both the Olympic and Paralympic torches have the same appearance.

They were designed by Mathieu Lehanneur.; Torch Relay Route ;Flames and torch; https://help.paris2024.org/en-gb/contents/What-will-the-Paris-2024-torch-look-like-Ongg4Gdn
OngjaAN0-en; en; What happens if the Olympic Flame is extinguished on its journey to Paris?; The Olympic Flame is sacred, unique, and always burning.

From its lighting in Olympia, thanks to the parabolic mirror, until the closing ceremony of the Games, it never extinguishes.



In case of an exceptional situation where the Flame might go out, safety lanterns, also containing the sacred fire from Olympia, are always with it.

These lanterns, similar to miner's lamps, even travel by plane!



Thus, it is always the same original Flame that continues its journey from ancient Greece to the host country of the Games.; Torch Relay Route ;Flames and torch; https://help.paris2024.org/en-gb/contents/What-happens-if-the-Olympic-Flame-is-extinguished-on-its-journey-to-Paris-OngjaAN0
Ongf4Gcd-en; en; Why are there two different Relays : an Olympic Torch Relay and a Paralympic Torch Relay?; There are two Relays because the Olympic Flame and the Paralympic Flame symbolise, respectively, the history and values of the Olympic Games and the history and values of the Paralympic Games.



Both relays serve the purpose of heralding the upcoming Games, whether they are Olympic or Paralympic.; Torch Relay Route ;Flames and torch; https://help.paris2024.org/en-gb/contents/Why-are-there-two-different-Relays-an-Olympic-Torch-Relay-and-a-Paralympic-Torch-Relay-Ongf4Gcd
